vertx-lang-scala-stack/vertx-sql-client/vertx-sql-client/src/main/asciidoc/scala/dataobjects.adoc, before:

= Cheatsheets

[[PoolOptions]]
== PoolOptions

++++
The options for configuring a connection pool.
++++
'''

[cols=">25%,25%,50%"]
[frame="topbot"]
|===
^|Name | Type ^| Description
|[[maxSize]]`@maxSize`|`Number (int)`|+++
Set the maximum pool size
+++
|[[maxWaitQueueSize]]`@maxWaitQueueSize`|`Number (int)`|+++
Set the maximum connection request allowed in the wait queue, any requests beyond the max size will result in
an failure.  If the value is set to a negative number then the queue will be unbounded.
+++
|===

[[SqlConnectOptions]]
== SqlConnectOptions

++++
Connect options for configuring link or link.
++++
'''

[cols=">25%,25%,50%"]
[frame="topbot"]
|===
^|Name | Type ^| Description
|[[cachePreparedStatements]]`@cachePreparedStatements`|`Boolean`|+++
Set whether prepared statements cache should be enabled.
+++
|[[connectTimeout]]`@connectTimeout`|`Number (int)`|-
|[[crlPaths]]`@crlPaths`|`Array of String`|-
|[[crlValues]]`@crlValues`|`Array of Buffer`|-
|[[database]]`@database`|`String`|+++
Specify the default database for the connection.
+++
|[[enabledCipherSuites]]`@enabledCipherSuites`|`Array of String`|-
|[[enabledSecureTransportProtocols]]`@enabledSecureTransportProtocols`|`Array of String`|-
|[[host]]`@host`|`String`|+++
Specify the host for connecting to the server.
+++
|[[hostnameVerificationAlgorithm]]`@hostnameVerificationAlgorithm`|`String`|-
|[[idleTimeout]]`@idleTimeout`|`Number (int)`|-
|[[idleTimeoutUnit]]`@idleTimeoutUnit`|`link:enums.html#TimeUnit[TimeUnit]`|-
|[[jdkSslEngineOptions]]`@jdkSslEngineOptions`|`link:dataobjects.html#JdkSSLEngineOptions[JdkSSLEngineOptions]`|-
|[[keyStoreOptions]]`@keyStoreOptions`|`link:dataobjects.html#JksOptions[JksOptions]`|-
|[[localAddress]]`@localAddress`|`String`|-
|[[logActivity]]`@logActivity`|`Boolean`|-
|[[metricsName]]`@metricsName`|`String`|-
|[[openSslEngineOptions]]`@openSslEngineOptions`|`link:dataobjects.html#OpenSSLEngineOptions[OpenSSLEngineOptions]`|-
|[[password]]`@password`|`String`|+++
Specify the user password to be used for the authentication.
+++
|[[pemKeyCertOptions]]`@pemKeyCertOptions`|`link:dataobjects.html#PemKeyCertOptions[PemKeyCertOptions]`|-
|[[pemTrustOptions]]`@pemTrustOptions`|`link:dataobjects.html#PemTrustOptions[PemTrustOptions]`|-
|[[pfxKeyCertOptions]]`@pfxKeyCertOptions`|`link:dataobjects.html#PfxOptions[PfxOptions]`|-
|[[pfxTrustOptions]]`@pfxTrustOptions`|`link:dataobjects.html#PfxOptions[PfxOptions]`|-
|[[port]]`@port`|`Number (int)`|+++
Specify the port for connecting to the server.
+++
|[[preparedStatementCacheMaxSize]]`@preparedStatementCacheMaxSize`|`Number (int)`|+++
Set the maximum number of prepared statements that the connection will cache.
+++
|[[preparedStatementCacheSqlLimit]]`@preparedStatementCacheSqlLimit`|`Number (int)`|+++
Set the maximum length of prepared statement SQL string that the connection will cache.
+++
|[[proxyOptions]]`@proxyOptions`|`link:dataobjects.html#ProxyOptions[ProxyOptions]`|-
|[[receiveBufferSize]]`@receiveBufferSize`|`Number (int)`|-
|[[reconnectAttempts]]`@reconnectAttempts`|`Number (int)`|-
|[[reconnectInterval]]`@reconnectInterval`|`Number (long)`|-
|[[reuseAddress]]`@reuseAddress`|`Boolean`|-
|[[reusePort]]`@reusePort`|`Boolean`|-
|[[sendBufferSize]]`@sendBufferSize`|`Number (int)`|-
|[[soLinger]]`@soLinger`|`Number (int)`|-
|[[ssl]]`@ssl`|`Boolean`|-
|[[sslHandshakeTimeout]]`@sslHandshakeTimeout`|`Number (long)`|-
|[[sslHandshakeTimeoutUnit]]`@sslHandshakeTimeoutUnit`|`link:enums.html#TimeUnit[TimeUnit]`|-
|[[tcpCork]]`@tcpCork`|`Boolean`|-
|[[tcpFastOpen]]`@tcpFastOpen`|`Boolean`|-
|[[tcpKeepAlive]]`@tcpKeepAlive`|`Boolean`|-
|[[tcpNoDelay]]`@tcpNoDelay`|`Boolean`|-
|[[tcpQuickAck]]`@tcpQuickAck`|`Boolean`|-
|[[trafficClass]]`@trafficClass`|`Number (int)`|-
|[[trustAll]]`@trustAll`|`Boolean`|-
|[[trustStoreOptions]]`@trustStoreOptions`|`link:dataobjects.html#JksOptions[JksOptions]`|-
|[[useAlpn]]`@useAlpn`|`Boolean`|-
|[[usePooledBuffers]]`@usePooledBuffers`|`Boolean`|-
|[[user]]`@user`|`String`|+++
Specify the user account to be used for the authentication.
+++
|===

Commit message:

Fixed problems with the nex class hierarchy in SQL-client

vertx-lang-scala-stack/vertx-sql-client/vertx-sql-client/src/main/asciidoc/scala/dataobjects.adoc, after:

= Cheatsheets

[[PoolOptions]]
== PoolOptions

++++
The options for configuring a connection pool.
++++
'''

[cols=">25%,25%,50%"]
[frame="topbot"]
|===
^|Name | Type ^| Description
|[[maxSize]]`@maxSize`|`Number (int)`|+++
Set the maximum pool size
+++
|[[maxWaitQueueSize]]`@maxWaitQueueSize`|`Number (int)`|+++
Set the maximum connection request allowed in the wait queue, any requests beyond the max size will result in
an failure.  If the value is set to a negative number then the queue will be unbounded.
+++
|===

[[SqlConnectOptions]]
== SqlConnectOptions

++++
Connect options for configuring link or link.
++++
'''

[cols=">25%,25%,50%"]
[frame="topbot"]
|===
^|Name | Type ^| Description
|[[cachePreparedStatements]]`@cachePreparedStatements`|`Boolean`|+++
Set whether prepared statements cache should be enabled.
+++
|[[connectTimeout]]`@connectTimeout`|`Number (int)`|-
|[[crlPaths]]`@crlPaths`|`Array of String`|-
|[[crlValues]]`@crlValues`|`Array of Buffer`|-
|[[database]]`@database`|`String`|+++
Specify the default database for the connection.
+++
|[[enabledCipherSuites]]`@enabledCipherSuites`|`Array of String`|-
|[[enabledSecureTransportProtocols]]`@enabledSecureTransportProtocols`|`Array of String`|-
|[[host]]`@host`|`String`|+++
Specify the host for connecting to the server.
+++
|[[hostnameVerificationAlgorithm]]`@hostnameVerificationAlgorithm`|`String`|-
|[[idleTimeout]]`@idleTimeout`|`Number (int)`|-
|[[idleTimeoutUnit]]`@idleTimeoutUnit`|`link:enums.html#TimeUnit[TimeUnit]`|-
|[[jdkSslEngineOptions]]`@jdkSslEngineOptions`|`link:dataobjects.html#JdkSSLEngineOptions[JdkSSLEngineOptions]`|-
|[[keyStoreOptions]]`@keyStoreOptions`|`link:dataobjects.html#JksOptions[JksOptions]`|-
|[[localAddress]]`@localAddress`|`String`|-
|[[logActivity]]`@logActivity`|`Boolean`|-
|[[metricsName]]`@metricsName`|`String`|-
|[[openSslEngineOptions]]`@openSslEngineOptions`|`link:dataobjects.html#OpenSSLEngineOptions[OpenSSLEngineOptions]`|-
|[[password]]`@password`|`String`|+++
Specify the user password to be used for the authentication.
+++
|[[pemKeyCertOptions]]`@pemKeyCertOptions`|`link:dataobjects.html#PemKeyCertOptions[PemKeyCertOptions]`|-
|[[pemTrustOptions]]`@pemTrustOptions`|`link:dataobjects.html#PemTrustOptions[PemTrustOptions]`|-
|[[pfxKeyCertOptions]]`@pfxKeyCertOptions`|`link:dataobjects.html#PfxOptions[PfxOptions]`|-
|[[pfxTrustOptions]]`@pfxTrustOptions`|`link:dataobjects.html#PfxOptions[PfxOptions]`|-
|[[port]]`@port`|`Number (int)`|+++
Specify the port for connecting to the server.
+++
|[[preparedStatementCacheMaxSize]]`@preparedStatementCacheMaxSize`|`Number (int)`|+++
Set the maximum number of prepared statements that the connection will cache.
+++
|[[preparedStatementCacheSqlLimit]]`@preparedStatementCacheSqlLimit`|`Number (int)`|+++
Set the maximum length of prepared statement SQL string that the connection will cache.
+++
|[[properties]]`@properties`|`String`|+++
Set properties for this client, which will be sent to server at the connection start.
+++
|[[proxyOptions]]`@proxyOptions`|`link:dataobjects.html#ProxyOptions[ProxyOptions]`|-
|[[receiveBufferSize]]`@receiveBufferSize`|`Number (int)`|-
|[[reconnectAttempts]]`@reconnectAttempts`|`Number (int)`|-
|[[reconnectInterval]]`@reconnectInterval`|`Number (long)`|-
|[[reuseAddress]]`@reuseAddress`|`Boolean`|-
|[[reusePort]]`@reusePort`|`Boolean`|-
|[[sendBufferSize]]`@sendBufferSize`|`Number (int)`|-
|[[soLinger]]`@soLinger`|`Number (int)`|-
|[[ssl]]`@ssl`|`Boolean`|-
|[[sslHandshakeTimeout]]`@sslHandshakeTimeout`|`Number (long)`|-
|[[sslHandshakeTimeoutUnit]]`@sslHandshakeTimeoutUnit`|`link:enums.html#TimeUnit[TimeUnit]`|-
|[[tcpCork]]`@tcpCork`|`Boolean`|-
|[[tcpFastOpen]]`@tcpFastOpen`|`Boolean`|-
|[[tcpKeepAlive]]`@tcpKeepAlive`|`Boolean`|-
|[[tcpNoDelay]]`@tcpNoDelay`|`Boolean`|-
|[[tcpQuickAck]]`@tcpQuickAck`|`Boolean`|-
|[[trafficClass]]`@trafficClass`|`Number (int)`|-
|[[trustAll]]`@trustAll`|`Boolean`|-
|[[trustStoreOptions]]`@trustStoreOptions`|`link:dataobjects.html#JksOptions[JksOptions]`|-
|[[useAlpn]]`@useAlpn`|`Boolean`|-
|[[usePooledBuffers]]`@usePooledBuffers`|`Boolean`|-
|[[user]]`@user`|`String`|+++
Specify the user account to be used for the authentication.
+++
|===
